you know what really overcooks my pasta
when groups of seemingly
very smart people in positions of power
in the tech world build this really cool
technology
then when it's finally time to bring it
to market come up with naming schemes
for it that make no sense the worst and
yes that's right i am looking at you usb
forum
and for you guys specifically what
really confuses me is that you went over
to the dark side after a long history of
making things actually
pretty simple and straightforward so we
started out with usb 1 then we got 1.1
which was a minor revision to 1.
cool then we got usb 2.0 which was much
faster then we got usb 3.0 which was
much faster again
so then it wasn't until around 2013 that
things started getting a little weird
you see the original usb 3.0 spec had a
max theoretical speed of 5 gigabits per
second so you would think that the next
revision which doubled that speed to 10
gigabit would be usb
4.0 right
wrong
instead what we got was usb 3.1 but
honestly i was even okay with that i
mean one is clearly a larger number than
zero and i guess it wasn't a fundamental
redesign of the spec or anything
no no no the issue is that at the same
time they also renamed the original usb
3.0 spec as usb 3.1 gen 1 then called
the new 10 gigabit spec usb 3.1 gen 2.
i mean
how do you just rename something after
the fact do you are you shampoo
do you think that makes it seem new and
cool now now improved but it's the old
one but you're also releasing a new one
that is improved why
and in fairness yeah it's been done
before but still
then making matters worse we've just
gotten another doubling in speed to 20
gigabits per second
why am i mad
i mean extra speed's a good thing right
the reason is that the usb forum has
given us an even worse nonsensical
naming twist
so bear with me here the original usb
3.0 5 gigabit spec is now usb 3.2 gen 1
with the 10 gigabit version becoming usb
3.2 gen 2
which
okay so by this moon logic then the 20
gigabit variation would be usb 3.2 gen 3
right
no
because the usb 3.2 spec just involves
adding more lanes to the connection so
the 20 gigabit version is usb 3.2 gen2
by two
with the buy two indicating that there
are two data lanes instead of just one
the usb
so the usb forum whose marketing
department clearly isn't much better at
naming things than the engineers has
then gone and recommended the names
super speed
super speed usb 10 gigabit per second
and super speed usb 20 gigabit per
second to differentiate the products on
store shelves
now to be fair to the usb forum the
method behind their madness seems to
be to have the naming scheme reflect how
many lanes can be used in each revision
and i do get that when they transitioned
from usb 2.0 to 3.0 part of the
rationale for a big number change was
that there were physical differences
with the connectors which is not the
case for the various usb 3 revisions
the problem though is that gen is
generation
it means
time
you can't just rename a generation a
later generation that's not how it works
my my great grandpa doesn't become my
dad later
furthermore usb 3.0 was backwards
compatible with usb 2.0 connectors
anyway and more importantly than all of
this is that consumers don't care about
things like the configuration of data
lanes and
exactly how the pins and the traces on
their motherboard are laid out they just
want to know if if the gadget they're
buying is going to work with their gear
and how fast it's going to be i mean pci
express has this sort of thing figured
out now to be clear there are some very
complicated sub-elements of the pcie
specification like like hot plug support
that are optional on certain revisions
and then required on others etc etc etc
but from a consumer standpoint when
there's a speed boost the version number
goes up by one and that's
basically it and even though the various
revisions of pci express are all
backwards and forwards compatible with
each other the folks in charge haven't
felt the need to mess around with silly
rebranding to make the point that it all
works together it's all called pci
express it's all called usb
tada
but alas this is the system we have so
if you're going to be in the market for
a usb gadget anytime soon i would
recommend paying really close attention
to this chart that we created for your
convenience or better yet print it out
and keep a copy in your wallet like i do
so that you too can be the life of the
party whenever the subject changes to
something lame
like
this
all right so that's it if you'll excuse
me now i need to go have a word with
intel about how they decide on names for
their processors as well
be right back
and i'm back ah no matter what your
routine is our sponsor for today's
episode dollar shave club has everything
you need to look feel and even smell
your best they've got shower products
they've got oral care products they've
got hair products skin products butt
white products and obviously
shaving products and they deliver them
straight to your door basically if you
have a body they've got you covered and
right now they've got a great offer
where you can get their shave shower or
oral starter set each for only five
bucks the shave starter set comes with
the executive razor and a three ounce
tube of their dr carver shave butter the
oral starter set comes with their
weighty toothbrush and a trial size
version of their toothpaste and the
shower starter set comes with three
trial size versions of their amber
lavender body cleanser citrus and
hawaiian ginger face cleanser and sage
and black pepper shampoo so join the
club with one of their starter sets for
just five bucks and then after that the
restock box ships regular sized products
at regular price head over to
dollarshaveclub.comtechquickie to join
today we're gonna have that linked below
so thanks for watching guys like dislike
check out our other videos comment with
video suggestions
especially if you have a suggestion for
another rant you'd like to see and don't
forget to subscribe and follow so you
don't miss out on your suggestion
like how counter productive would that
be you've invested all this time in
writing a youtube comment and then you
might never see the fruit of your labor
tragic